---
layout: post
title: First post!
image: /img/pihole/pihole_3.PNG
---

# Pi-Hole

*Scope:*  
Installing Pi-Hole on my network and evaluate the outcome.  

*What:*  
Pi-Hole is an primarily anapplication that blocks adverts (ads), trackers, and in-game ads; It is meant to operate at a network-level.  

*How:*  
Installing application on a headless Ubuntu Server; By configuring the firewall to forward all DNS request to the Pi-Hole.  

Before we get started, let's review the requierements.
  
## Requirements:
1. Virtual Machine
   1. Ubuntu Server 16.04 LTS
   2. 1 Core CPU
   3. 1GB RAM
   4. 16GB HDD
   5. Static IP
   6. Network connectivity
2. Ability to forward DNS request from firewall/home router.
   
**Note:** for the sake of this article, I will not cover the creation of the VM. I will be starting with a fresh instance of Ubuntu Server 16.04 LTS with the latest patch/update intalled.

## Installation:
1. Connect to the server via preffered SSH client (I like MobaXterm, because ... (insert image) )
2. Lets find out if we have `git` installed on the server:
    > `popeye@pi-hole:~$ apt list --installed | grep git`  
    > ...And it look like it does  
    > `WARNING: apt does not have a stable CLI interface. Use with caution in scripts.`  
    > `findutils/xenial,now 4.6.0+git+20160126-2 amd64 [installed]`  
    > `git/xenial-updates,xenial-security,now 1:2.7.4-0ubuntu1.6 amd64 [installed]`  
    > `git-man/xenial-updates,xenial-updates,xenial-security,xenial-security,now 1:2.7.4-0ubuntu1.6 all [installed]`  

3. I like my applications in the `/opt/` directory, let's create the directory:
    > `popeye@pi-hole:~$ sudo mkdir /opt/pi-hole`
    > `[sudo] password for popeye:`
    
4. Lets clone Pi-Hole repositiory on the server:
    > `popeye@pi-hole:~$ sudo git clone --depth 1 https://github.com/pi-hole/pi-hole.git /opt/pi-hole`  
    > `popeye@pi-hole:~$ cd "/opt/pi-hole/automated install/"`  
    > `popeye@pi-hole:~$ sudo bash basic-install.sh`  
    
Once you execute the script, the application will launch a new window. From there do the following:  
5. Configuration of Pi-hole:  
   1. Accept the fact that `This intaller will transform your device into a network-wide ad blocker!`
   2. Free and open source - Here is the [URL](http://pi-hole.net/donate) if you wish to donate.
   3. Reminder that (insert img)
   4. Choose your preffered upstream DNS Server. In my case I go with Cloudfare. (insert img)


6. Configuration of DNS on the firewall (Fortigate in my case)
    Now, this will vary for everyone, ultimately, you want to forward all of your DNS request that goes throught said firewall/route to your newly added Pi-Hole. Which will reach out to the the configured DNS (step 5.8)
   1. This is my current config on my Windows PC
        > `Ethernet adapter Ethernet:`  
        > `Default Gateway . . . . . . . . . : 10.30.10.1`  
        > `DNS Servers . . . . . . . . . . . : 10.30.10.1`
    2. A look on the Fortigate:
    3.   
TO_BE_CONTINUED
